Add monitoring documentation (#326)
gardener/gardener-extension-registry-cache: docs/usage/registry-cache/monitoring.md

# Monitoring

> The `registry-cache` extension exposes metrics for the [distribution](https://github.com/distribution/distribution) `registries` running on a Shoot cluster as `StatefulSets` so that they can be easily viewed by cluster owners and operators in the Shoot's Prometheus and Plutono instances. The exposed monitoring data provides an overview of the performance of the `registry` pull-through caches, including hit rate and traffic to and from the `registry`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `registry-cache` extension exposes metrics for the registry caches running in the Shoot cluster so that they can be easily viewed by cluster owners and operators in the Shoot's Prometheus and Plutono instances. The exposed monitoring data provides an overview of the performance of the pull-through caches, including hit rate and network traffic data.
```

- There is no need to reveal implementation detail that we run registries as StatefulSets.
- For consistency reasons, use "registry cache" or "pull-through cache" for naming the cache that is deployed in the Shoot - not "registry" or "proxy".

> ## Metrics

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> Metrics for the `registries` originate from the [proxy](https://github.com/distribution/distribution/blob/v3.0.0-rc.2/registry/proxy/proxymetrics.go#L12-L21) package. They are scraped by the Shoot's [Prometheus instance](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/monitoring/README.md#shoot-prometheus).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A registry cache serves [several metrics]((https://github.com/distribution/distribution/blob/v3.0.0-rc.2/registry/proxy/proxymetrics.go#L12-L21)). The metrics are scraped by the [Shoot's Prometheus instance](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/monitoring/README.
```

> These metrics can also be viewed in a dedicated dashboard named `Registry Caches` in the Shoot's Plutono instance. From the `Registry` dropdown menu you can select the upstream for which you wish the metrics to be displayed (by default, metrics are summed for all upstream registries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Registry Caches` dashboard in the Shoot's Plutono instance contains several panels which are built using the registry metrics. From the `Registry` dropdown menu you can select the upstream for which you wish the metrics to be displayed (by default, metrics are summed for all upstream registries).
```

> Following is a list of all exposed `registry` metrics. The `upstream_host` label can be used to determine the upstream host to which the metrics are related, while the `type` label can be used to determine weather the metric is for an image `blob` or an image `manifest`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following is a list of all exposed registry metrics. The `upstream_host` label can be used to determine the upstream host to which the metrics are related, while the `type` label can be used to determine weather the metric is for an image `blob` or an image `manifest`:
```

> #### registry_proxy_requests_total

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> The number of total incoming `registry` request received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of total incoming request received.
```

- Type: Counter
- Labels: `upstream_host` `type` 

> #### registry_proxy_hits_total

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> The number of total cache hits; i.e. the requested content exists in the `registry` image store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of total cache hits; i.e. the requested content exists in the registry cache's image store.
```

- Type: Counter
- Labels: `upstream_host` `type`

> #### registry_proxy_misses_total

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

The number of total cache misses; i.e. the requested content is fetched from the upstream.
- Type: Counter
- Labels: `upstream_host` `type`

> #### registry_proxy_pulled_bytes_total

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> The size of total bytes that `registry` has pulled from the upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of total bytes that the registry cache has pulled from the upstream.
```

- Type: Counter
- Labels: `upstream_host` `type`

> #### registry_proxy_pushed_bytes_total

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> The size of total bytes pushed to the `registry` clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of total bytes pushed to the registry cache's clients.
```

- Type: Counter
- Labels: `upstream_host` `type`

## Alerts

> There are two alerts defined for the `registry` cache `PersistentVolume` in the Shoot's Prometheus instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two alerts defined for the registry cache `PersistentVolume` in the Shoot's Prometheus instance:
```

> #### RegistryCachePersistentVolumeUsageCritical

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> This indicates that the `registry` cache `PersistentVolume` is almost full and less than 5% is free. When there is no available disk space, no new images will be cached. However, image pull operations are not affected. An alert is fired when the following expression evaluates to true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This indicates that the registry cache `PersistentVolume` is almost full and less than 5% is free. When there is no available disk space, no new images will be cached. However, image pull operations are not affected. An alert is fired when the following expression evaluates to true:
```

```
100 * (
 kubelet_volume_stats_available_bytes{persistentvolumeclaim=~"^cache-volume-registry-.+$"}
   /
 kubelet_volume_stats_capacity_bytes{persistentvolumeclaim=~"^cache-volume-registry-.+$"}
) < 5
```

> #### RegistryCachePersistentVolumeFullInFourDays

Reviewer: Add empty line after the header.

> This indicates that the `registry` cache `PersistentVolume` is expected to fill up within four days based on recent sampling. An alert is fired when the following expression evaluates to true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This indicates that the registry cache `PersistentVolume` is expected to fill up within four days based on recent sampling. An alert is fired when the following expression evaluates to true:
```

```
100 * (
 kubelet_volume_stats_available_bytes{persistentvolumeclaim=~"^cache-volume-registry-.+$"}
   /
 kubelet_volume_stats_capacity_bytes{persistentvolumeclaim=~"^cache-volume-registry-.+$"}
) < 15
and
predict_linear(kubelet_volume_stats_available_bytes{persistentvolumeclaim=~"^cache-volume-registry-.+$"}[30m], 4 * 24 * 3600) <= 0
```

> Users can subscribe to these alerts by following the Gardener [alerting guide](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/monitoring/alerting.md#alerting-for-users).

Reviewer: Adapt https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-registry-cache/blob/0864c444f0c7ff028906e95d5dc65659f07ce9e4/docs/usage/registry-cache/configuration.md#L87 to link the alerting section in this guide.

## Logging

> To view `registry` logs in Plutono, navigate to the `Explore` tab and select `vali` from the `Explore` dropdown menu. Afterwards enter the following `vali` query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the registry cache logs in Plutono, navigate to the `Explore` tab and select `vali` from the `Explore` dropdown menu. Afterwards enter the following `vali` query:
```
